feat: relying party solution (#31)
italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs: docs/en/relying-party-solution.rst

.. include:: ../common/common_definitions.rst

.. _relying-party-solution:

> Relying Party Solution

Reviewer: Please add a non-normative example of RP metadata in an Entity Configuration available at **.well-known/openid-federation**

considering and entity configuration having both `client_metadata` and `openid_relying_party`

where client_metadata is defined here: 
https://openid.net/specs/openid-4-verifiable-presentations-1_0.html#section-5.7-10

++++++++++++++++++++++

> This document defines the implementation of the online presentation and verification flow of a credential (PID or (Q)EAA), in accordance with the "OpenID for Verifiable Credential Presentation - draft 19" specifications [OID4VCP], in the context of a Cross-Device flow scenario.

Reviewer: do we assume that this flow won't work in same device scenario?

Author: I agree with you, we can remove the Cross-Device flow scenario in this introduction.
The Authorization Request and Response Object flow will work in both same and cross device scenarios, but there are some assumptions that differs between them.
We started to create a section “Same Device Flow” section that we will complete when the situation is more clear (for example, what is the redirect uri in which the verifier has to redirect the user agent in case of multi wallet?)

Cross Device Authentication
---------------------------

> In the Cross Device Authentication, the user logs into the website and provides their consent for presenting their PID through the Wallet. 

Reviewer: user -> User

Reviewer: Wallet -> Wallet Instance

Author: Done

> Once authentication is performed, the end user can request the display of attributes provided by the Wallet.

Reviewer: end user -> User
Wallet -> Wallet Instance

Author: Done

Below is explained the Cross Device Authentication flow.

> NOTE: Use Cases about other flows will be analysed in next sprints.

Reviewer: ~sprints -> releases of this technical specification~

please remove `NOTE: Use Cases about other flows will be analysed in next sprints.`

Author: Done

.. image:: ../../images/cross_device_auth_seq_diagram.svg
  :align: center

>   :target: http://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/umla/TLFDZjem4BxxAKPKgjf3Ns0bgkrIMj5M8eKiU-7Y91DmrnbJ_soMFdtjiCOcY5iqy_rydntV6ykrTPrat5b5hgjGCtRmCr6B0oSBaqU3UWBSW6EiKgymMQ4y2jf1uL772Rpx9NPx-o0TNl8sg4KhKCE7RrgHdLFpSP1fR-8UUFryXbN8a1hmZgCyJrnAjB0W7vrg7C0zOzCfV75sZ-IHt0f50DCfS_3fC_HtmqffyG-X5tOF9mt6QojUk4LmwRDdVU2qU0VhS3PdwY3A6ap8H6gHjHXebQVDD8RP1GzM-DUXIPQXN-Kf9wkuXiVL8hUeecwRT7-lOAQQkEXzpBtg_JGCyngiZ_kQqvaLX_DNgpquDzvIgrMNaB7FztbvXYshF-XPMwgEEVMwLZ0PiKR5Of8Dbw89inzF9Qp5ZhXrEgqBhMeqPfpW_PQowqO8VscAN2pNvTK5c8CYWwCR7EKEz9kH4Y26kccHwxATLku0XP8oF1ld8qlG4TjYEkTHvk6KIyt913b5YwytyiwyakiGDWMKwXafMote9PR9bAwLyvzn-NFK0AbXRq5TzfQQ7DPUr7RitfDS9_y3

Reviewer: http:// -> https://

Author: Done

>   :target: http://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/umla/TLFDZjem4BxxAKPKgjf3Ns0bgkrIMj5M8eKiU-7Y91DmrnbJ_soMFdtjiCOcY5iqy_rydntV6ykrTPrat5b5hgjGCtRmCr6B0oSBaqU3UWBSW6EiKgymMQ4y2jf1uL772Rpx9NPx-o0TNl8sg4KhKCE7RrgHdLFpSP1fR-8UUFryXbN8a1hmZgCyJrnAjB0W7vrg7C0zOzCfV75sZ-IHt0f50DCfS_3fC_HtmqffyG-X5tOF9mt6QojUk4LmwRDdVU2qU0VhS3PdwY3A6ap8H6gHjHXebQVDD8RP1GzM-DUXIPQXN-Kf9wkuXiVL8hUeecwRT7-lOAQQkEXzpBtg_JGCyngiZ_kQqvaLX_DNgpquDzvIgrMNaB7FztbvXYshF-XPMwgEEVMwLZ0PiKR5Of8Dbw89inzF9Qp5ZhXrEgqBhMeqPfpW_PQowqO8VscAN2pNvTK5c8CYWwCR7EKEz9kH4Y26kccHwxATLku0XP8oF1ld8qlG4TjYEkTHvk6KIyt913b5YwytyiwyakiGDWMKwXafMote9PR9bAwLyvzn-NFK0AbXRq5TzfQQ7DPUr7RitfDS9_y3

Reviewer 2: I don't understand the flow 1/4. Why does the user have to initiate this flow on the wallet instance? And why does the QR-Code only appear in point 6?
In my opinion the user is already browsing the site and when he decides to authenticate the website he generates a qr-code. So the wallet instance intervenes only after the QR code has been generated and framed. 
CC @TeamSog @peppelinux

Reviewer: I think that we just need a better wording 

Authorize with Wallet is misleading, the user uses his user-agent on the mobile device or personal workstation trying to access to a protected resource and the RP exposes to the user a discovery page, with the `Login with IT Wallet` button

then the RP shows the QR-code or http 302 with univ/deep link and the wallet instance takes the request

Reviewer: all the steps related to FE and BE are out of scope from this tech specs and must be removed, the sequence diagram must then be updated accordingly

Reviewer 2: In fact, I would like to understand what "2 start authorization" means. How does the wallet instance contact the verifier without a previous qr-code?

Reviewer 2: Please consider that I can also start the stream on desktop and then use the app (mobile) only to authenticat. Like SPID

Reviewer: @grausof now it's changed, d oyou agree with this solution?
I ask to you a complete revision, this discussion is then to be considered closed.

> .. list-table:: 

Reviewer: please merge Verifier (FE) and Verifier (BE) in a single Entity (Verifier / Relying Party)

  :widths: 25 25 25 25
  :header-rows: 1

  * - **Id**
    - **Source**
    - **Destination**
    - **Description**
  * - **1**
    - **User**
    - **Wallet Instance**
    - The User navigates the Verifier's website and clicks on the 'Login with IT Wallet' button
  * - **2**
    - **User**
    - **Wallet Instance**
    - The Authorization flow starts
  * - **3-4**
    - **Verifier (FE)**
    - **Verifier (BE)**     

>     - Requests the generation of an Authorization Request which contains the Presentation Definition/Scope, Verifier metadata and information the wallet needs to generate the response.

Reviewer: wallet -> Wallet Instance

Author: Done

  * - **5**
    - **Verifier (FE)**
    - **-**     

>     - Inserts the reference to the previously generated object into a QR Code that is displayed on the screen

Reviewer: here the sole difference between cross and same device is that in the first the qrcode is given, in the second a http 302 with a universal/deep link

please update with this `if[ ]`

  * - **6**
    - **Verifier (FE)**
    - **Wallet**
    - QR Code is displayed ready to be scanned
  * - **7**
    - **Wallet**
    - **-**
    - Scans the QR Code
  * - **8**
    - **Wallet**
    - **-**
    - Extracts the Request URI from the payload of the QR Code
  * - **9-10**
    - **Wallet**
    - **Verifier (BE)**          

>     - Requests the content of the Authorization Request by invoking the Request URI

Reviewer: between 10 and 11, add a trust evaluation phase

the wallet instance attests the trust to the RP, get the metadata and apply the policy
checks which scopes the RP is allowed to ask

  * - **11**
    - **Wallet**
    - **-**     

>     - Verify the signature of the Request Object (JWT)

Reviewer: between 11 and 12, please add the user interaction in consent management and selective disclosure

  * - **12**
    - **Wallet**
    - **-**     
    - Processes the content of the object and proceeds with the authentication
  * - **13**
    - **Wallet**
    - **Verifier (BE)**     
    - Generate an Authorization Response containing the VP Token
  * - **14**
    - **Verifier (BE)**
    - **-**     
    - Verify Authorization Response signature
  * - **15**
    - **Verifier (BE)**
    - **-**     
    - Process the content of the object, performs checks for integrity and tampering, and saves the Response to the persistence layer
  * - **16**
    - **Verifier (FE)**
    - **Verifier (BE)**     
    - Request a Session Cookie through polling, which will be available downstream after the checks performed in the previous step
  * - **17**
    - **Verifier (BE)**
    - **-**     
    - Consume the VP Token
  * - **18**
    - **Verifier (BE)**
    - **-**     
    - Requests the invalidation of the current session as the transaction has been successfully completed
  * - **19**
    - **Verifier (FE)**
    - **User**     

>     - The user is successfully authenticated on the Verifier's website

Reviewer: user -> User

Author: Done

> AuthorizationRequest Details

Reviewer: AuthorizationRequest -> Authorization Request

Author: Done

----------------------------

> The AuthorizationRequest object is required by the Relying Party FrontEnd in order to show the QR Code. 

Reviewer: AuthorizationRequest -> Authorization Request

delete `FrontEnd`

Author: Done

> The User will scan the QR Code using the Wallet granting the attributes to the RP.

Reviewer: Wallet -> Wallet Instance

Author: Done

.. code-block:: javascript

  POST /oid4vp HTTP/1.1
  HOST: <VERIFIER_RELYING_PARTY_HOST>

  HTTP/1.1 201 OK

> Below a non-normative response example

Reviewer: add `:` at the end

Author: Done

> Below a non-normative response example

Reviewer 2: What is the body of this POST? In particular, in the whole specification I don't see where the VP of the wallet instance comes into play!

Reviewer: @TeamSog this section is not clear

We need a non normative example of the QR Code represented as SVG and another containing its payload

the payload should redirect the wallet to the request uri

Author: Pls check the authorization request detail section @grausof @peppelinux

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "alg": "ES256",
    "typ": "JWT",
    "x5c": [ "MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgIC...20a" ],
    "kid": "e0bbf2f1-8c3a-4eab-a8ac-2e8f34db8a47",
    "trust_chain":[
      "MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgIC...awz",
      "MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgIC...2w3",
      "MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgIC...sf2"
    ]
  }
  .
  { 

>     "transactionId": "e9673f90-a652-4c47-8039-f60096cabafb",

Reviewer: please remove `transactionId` and use `state` instead

    "state": "a1252f90-a652-4c47-8039-f60096cavzqw",
    "nonce": "o1923f90-a652-4c47-8039-f60096cabcza",

>     "requestUri": "oid4vp-wallet://authorize?client_id=https://<VERIFIER_RELYING_PARTY_HOST>&request_uri=https://<VERIFIER_RELYING_PARTY_HOST>/oid4vp/a1252f90-a652-4c47-8039-f60096cavzqw",

Reviewer: eudiw://

or haip://

@grausof @balanza @fmarino-ipzs ^

>     "requestUri": "oid4vp-wallet://authorize?client_id=https://<VERIFIER_RELYING_PARTY_HOST>&request_uri=https://<VERIFIER_RELYING_PARTY_HOST>/oid4vp/a1252f90-a652-4c47-8039-f60096cavzqw",

Reviewer: requestUri is out of standard, please change it to `redirect_uri`

Author: The specification suggests to use direct_post in conjunction with request_uri, instead of redirect_uri used in same device flow.
Additionally, all params that aren't in snake_case are now changed

    "iss": "https://<VERIFIER_RELYING_PARTY_HOST>",

>     "aud": "https://<VERIFIER_RELYING_PARTY_HOST>",

Reviewer: https://bitbucket.org/openid/connect/issues/1961/openid4vp-aud-parameter-in-the-request

it seems to me that we can remove it, @TeamSog can you confirm?

Author: Got it, we will remove aud claim in non-normative examples

>     "iat": "1686823112",

Reviewer: `iat` and `exp` are integer not string

Author: Done

    "exp": "1686823812"
  }
  .
  SIGNATURE

Header
^^^^^^

.. list-table:: 
  :widths: 25 50
  :header-rows: 1

>   * - **Param**

Reviewer: Param -> Name or Parameter name

    - **Description**
  * - **alg**
    - Algorithm used to sign the JWT
  * - **typ**
    - Media Type of the JWT
  * - **x5c**

>     - X.509 Certitifcate Chain containing the Key used to sign the JWT

Reviewer: Certitifcate -> Certificate

Reviewer: Key -> key

Author: Done

  * - **kid**

>     - Key ID used identifying the Key used to sign the JWT. Required if trust_chain is used

Reviewer: the Key -> the key

trust_chain -> ``trust_chain``

Author: Done

  * - **trust_chain**

>     - Sequence of verified Entity Statements that validates a participant's compliance with the Federation

Reviewer: partiticipant -> Relying Party

Author: Done

Payload
^^^^^^^
.. list-table:: 
  :widths: 25 50
  :header-rows: 1

  * - **Param**
    - **Description**

>   * - **transactionId**

Reviewer: @TeamSog the transaction-id is mentioned in the Openid4vp draft in the example of the direct_post flow, where there' a distinction between the verifier frontend and its response endpoint.

we have discussed today that this level of detail is out of scope since this transaction-id would be just known between the verifier internal components, so we can simply remove this from out specs that aims to give an interop profile and not an internal architecture of the verifier components

so, all about VB and VF and transaction-id should be removed

    - Unique identifier of the authorization transaction
  * - **state**

>     - Unique identifier of the AuthorizationRequest

Reviewer: AuthorizationRequest -> authorization request

Author: Done

  * - **nonce**

>     - Fresh cryptographically random number with sufficient entropy used for Security Reason

Reviewer: Security -> security

Reviewer: Reason -> reason

Author: Done

  * - **requestUri**

>     - The payload of the QR Code from where the Wallet can obtain the Request Object containing Authorization Request parameters

Reviewer: Wallet -> Wallet Instance

Request Object -> request object

Authorization Request -> authorization request

Author: If you agree, we will name all the object model with first letter uppercased, as you suggested in previous advices

  * - **iat**

>     - The timestamp when the JWT was issued

Reviewer: timestamp, we should say unix timesamp or numericDate according to ISO ...

Author: Done

  * - **exp**
    - The timestamp when the JWT is set to expire
  * - **iss**
    - The entity that issued the JWT. It will be populated with the Verifier URI
  * - **aud**

>     - The audience of the JWT. It will be equal to iss value

Reviewer: iss -> ``iss``

Author: Done

> RequestObject Details

Reviewer: RequestObject -> Request Object

Author: Done

---------------------

> The "requestUri" claim provided in AuthorizationRequest response object will be the payload of QR Code.

Reviewer: AuthorizationRequest -> authorization request

Author: Done

> The Wallet will invoke the Relying Party using the "request_uri" param found in QR Code in order to obtain the entire Authorization Request Object.

Reviewer: Wallet -> Wallet Instance

Reviewer: AuthorizationRequest Object -> authorization request object

Author: Done

.. code-block:: javascript
  
  GET /oid4vp/{id} HTTP/1.1
  HOST: <VERIFIER_RELYING_PARTY_HOST>

  HTTP/1.1 200 OK

> Below a non-normative response example

Reviewer: add `:` at the end

Author: Done

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "alg": "ES256",
    "typ": "JWT",
    "x5c": [ "MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgIC...20a" ],
    "kid": "e0bbf2f1-8c3a-4eab-a8ac-2e8f34db8a47",
    "trust_chain": [
      "MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgIC...awz",
      "MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgIC...2w3",
      "MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgIC...sf2"
    ]
  }
  .
  { 

>     "presentation_definition": null,

Reviewer: please remove all the parameter se to `null` and create a `.. note::` section out of the example where we say our assumption about why these parameter are not used

Author: .. note :: is not supported by Github . At the moment we are using an icon instead of it.

>     "presentation_definition": null,

Reviewer: following today's SIOP call 

there are some bad feelings about the misuse of the scope parameter

I'll continue working on that with the help of the authors and in the same time we need for the national solution a PoC with a `presentation_definition` for interop

presentation_definition could be aliased and embedded in separate scopes, it's challenging and interesting but still not ready

while we'll implement `presentation_definition` we'll continue working on a proposal

@TeamSog @grausof ^

Author: An example of presentation_definition is added in addition to scope, can you pls check it? @peppelinux

    "presentation_definition_uri": null,

>     "scope": "eu.europa.ec.eudiw.pid.it.1 eu.europa.ec.eudiw.pid.it.1:give eu.europa.ec.eudiw.pid.it.1:email",

Reviewer: eu.europa.ec.eudiw.pid.it.1:give -> eu.europa.ec.eudiw.pid.it.1:given_name

    "client_id_scheme": "entity_id",
    "client_id": "https://<VERIFIER_RELYING_PARTY_HOST>",

>     "client_metadata": null,

Reviewer: please remove the `null` parameter and create a `.. note:` where say why these parameter are not used

Author: .. note :: is not supported by Github . At the moment we are using an icon instead of it.  A new section null attributes has been created

    "client_metadata_uri": null,
    "response_mode": "direct_post.jwt",
    "response_type": "vp_token",
    "response_uri": "https://<VERIFIER_RELYING_PARTY_HOST>/oid4vp/callback",
    "redirect_uri": null,
    "nonce": "2c128e4d-fc91-4cd3-86b8-18bdea0988cb",
    "state": "3be39b69-6ac1-41aa-921b-3e6c07ddcb03",
    "iss": "https://<VERIFIER_RELYING_PARTY_HOST>",
    "aud": "https://<VERIFIER_RELYING_PARTY_HOST>",
    "iat": 1672418465,
    "exp": 1672422065
  }
  .
  SIGNATURE

Header
^^^^^^

.. list-table:: 
  :widths: 25 50
  :header-rows: 1

  * - **Param**
    - **Description**
  * - **alg**
    - Algorithm used to sign the JWT
  * - **typ**
    - Media Type of the JWT
  * - **x5c**

>     - X.509 Certitifcate Chain containing the Key used to sign the JWT

Reviewer: Key -> key
Certitifcate -> Certificate

Author: Done

  * - **kid**

>     - Key ID used identifying the Key used to sign the JWT. Required if trust_chain is used

Reviewer: Key -> key

Author: Done

  * - **trust_chain**
    - Sequence of verified Entity Statements that validates a participant's compliance with the Federation

Payload
^^^^^^^
.. list-table:: 
  :widths: 25 50
  :header-rows: 1

  * - **Param**
    - **Description**
  * - **presentation_definition**

>     - String containing a Presentation Definition JSON object that articulate what proofs a Verifier requires. It will be null if presentation_definition_uri or scope is present

Reviewer: scope and all the parameter must be ``wrapped``

Author: Done

  * - **presentation_definition_uri**
    - A string containing an HTTPS URL pointing to a resource where a Presentation Definition JSON object can be retrieved. It will be null if presentation_definition or scope is present
  * - **scope**
    - Alias for a well-defined Presentation Definition. It will be used to identify PID Presentation Definition request. It will be null if presentation_definition or presentation_definition_uri is present.
  * - **client_id_scheme**
    - String identifying the scheme of the value in the client_id. It will be 'entity_id'
  * - **client_id**
    - Client Identifier
  * - **client_metadata**

>     - JSON object containing the Verifier metadata. It will be 'null' since we will use entity_id client_id_scheme. Client metadata will be present in the trust_chain Statements

Reviewer: Statements -> statements

Author: Done

>     - JSON object containing the Verifier metadata. It will be 'null' since we will use entity_id client_id_scheme. Client metadata will be present in the trust_chain Statements

Reviewer: Client -> Relying Party

Author: Done

  * - **client_metadata_uri**
    - String containing an HTTPS URL pointing to a resource where a JSON object with the Verifier metadata can be retrieved
  * - **response_mode**

>     - Used to ask the Wallet in which way it has to send the response. It will be 'direct_post.jwt'

Reviewer: Wallet -> Wallet Instance

Author: Done

  * - **response_type**
    - Used to ask the Wallet what it has to provide in AuthorizationResponse. We will be 'vp_token'
  * - **response_uri**
    - The Response URI to which the Wallet must send the Authorization Response using an HTTPS POST
  * - **redirect_uri**
    - The Redirect URI to which the Wallet must redirect the Authorization Response. if will be 'null' since response_uri is present
  * - **nonce**

>     - Fresh cryptographically random number with sufficient entropy used for Security Reason

Reviewer: Security Reason lowercased

Author: Done

  * - **state**

>     - Unique identifier of the AuthorizationRequest

Reviewer: AuthorizationRequest -> authorization request

Author: Done

The specification supports two different scenarios, that are:

- Same Device Flow: Verifier and Wallet Instance acts in the same device
- Cross Device Flow: Verifier and Wallet Instance acts in different devices

Both of the scenarios will be discussed and analyzed in this section, taking into account differences between.

Same Device Flow
----------------
In a Same Device Authorization Flow, the User interacts with a Verifier that resides in the same device on which the Wallet Instance (and VCs) are stored.
This scenario utilizes HTTP redirects to finalize the authorization phase and obtain Verifiable Presentation(s).

Once authentication is performed, the User requests the display of attributes provided by the Wallet Instance.

⚠️ This flow will be described more in detail.

Cross Device Flow
-----------------
In a Cross Device Authorization Flow, the User interacts with a Verifier that resides in a different device on which the Wallet Instance (and VCs) are stored.
This scenario requests the Verifier to show a QR Code which the User will scan with his Wallet Instance.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This scenario requests the Verifier to show a QR Code which the User will scan with their Wallet Instance.

```

Author: Done

Once authentication is performed, the User requests the display of attributes provided by the Wallet Instance.

.. image:: ../../images/cross_device_auth_seq_diagram.svg
  :align: center
  :target: https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/umla/ZLB1ZXen3BtdAwmzLAtK_O6Lg7Q5UjXM5HJOtGkNC36GTd2eup2bNr-78LDc459lCo_FptxsUunYMTAkDZP9eBHR8HkpLynNVcz9uEub8j-1ZP3w-9kjQnHu9fMW2a-Kfa-PONtqj86fWiSJuO36Z4Rmb6IBf4GhFX30Q6GIt7_IvmUOuQ-4KM3AGR0IT8h4aBX2Ooln1okOPGvO2iQC6SkQWVsVLlAiSatxFeDnSAM-UO3vDZIAda27boswxyQOfh0hIqMZ0p__5bPoD_hBx7b9QmwxFZDFCPtC5nrlilg1MhQarR5VstZPmc31y2IYX9Ez6vje6LU52qxdJRJZzjiFJ1TFhxRsBcDVtXOmznkoahWyTwrw5putwXIG_Veue7n3iIfhh_gKgT31w_Hz_D0Iqhzfru6X2hJsl1li89bKh8rR0hfBLwbhffcgCCRX0TujwIAH23doWvCDqnNtWUADHDxQNI5qSznIfQ2ruO3S8--tDYAmZkuP8qXuqEJSmw4qyoIuOI_7Zs2Bc_QF76n3xP1XvSdbOuHrk-KiW1GJ8sXeMWoi_jMUVgA37CJsa1xvlyXLOaOIY3foDaM1AXnMZdCbTmVtQauj8LscTFBryeQDCOEWFYAvjAl_0W00

.. list-table::
  :widths: 25 25 25 25
  :header-rows: 1

  * - **Id**
    - **Source**
    - **Destination**
    - **Description**
  * - **1**
    - **User**
    - **Relying Party**

>     - The user tries to access to a protected resource, the Relying Party redirect it to a discovery page in which the User selects the Login with Wallet button. The Authorization flow starts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The User tries to access to a protected resource, the Relying Party redirect it to a discovery page in which the User selects the Login with Wallet button. The Authorization flow starts.
```

Author: Done

  * - **2**
    - **Relying Party**
    - **-**
    - The Relying Party creates an Authorization Request which contains the Presentation Definition/Scope, metadata and information the Wallet Instance needs to generate the response.
  * - **3**
    - **Relying Party**
    - **-**
    - Inserts the reference URI of the previously generated object into a QR Code
  * - **4**
    - **Relying Party**
    - **Wallet Instance**
    - QR Code is displayed on the screen, ready to be scanned
  * - **5**
    - **Wallet Instance**
    - **-**
    - The Wallet Instance Scans the QR Code
  * - **6**
    - **Wallet Instance**
    - **-**
    - Extracts the Request URI from the payload of the QR Code
  * - **7**
    - **Wallet Instance**
    - **Relying Party**
    - Requests the content of the Authorization Request (Request Object) by invoking the Request URI, passing as RequestBody the Wallet Instance Attestation
  * - **8**
    - **Relying Party**
    - **-**

>     - The Relying Party attests the trust of the Wallet Instance using the Wallet Instance Attestation and verifies its metadata

Reviewer: What if ... the Wallet uses HTTP GET Instead? (let's assume a european wallet instance, not italian)
Well, in this case the RP should request the wallet instance attestation first of all.
Then, asks for PID

@TeamSog WDYT?

  * - **9**
    - **Relying Party**
    - **Wallet Instance**
    - The Relying Party build the Request Object and returns it as response

>   * - **10**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The Relying Party builds the Request Object and returns it as response
  * - **10**
```

Author: Done

    - **Wallet Instance**
    - **-**
    - Verifies Request Object JWT signature
  * - **11**
    - **Wallet Instance**
    - **-**
    - The Wallet Instance attests the Relying Party Trust verifying the ``trust_chain``
  * - **12**
    - **Wallet Instance**

>     - **-**

Reviewer: The MUST be moved before **10** otherwise there wouldn't be any secure way to attests public key required for verify the JWT signature

    - Verifies the Relying Party metadata to finalize the handshake
  * - **13**
    - **Wallet Instance**
    - **-**
    - Checks which Verifiable Presentation(s) the Relying Party is allowed to request
  * - **14**
    - **Wallet Instance**
    - **User**
    - The Wallet Instance requests the User for consent to finalize the transaction
  * - **15**
    - **User**
    - **Wallet Instance**
    - User confirms the request
  * - **16**
    - **Wallet Instance**
    - **-**

>     - Process the Request Object and create an Authorization Response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Process the Request Object 
```

The User was authenticated locally when the Wallet Instance is started on their personal device

Author: Done

  * - **17**
    - **Wallet Instance**
    - **Relying Party**
    - The Wallet provides the Authorization Response to the Relying Party
  * - **18**
    - **Relying Party**
    - **-**
    - Verifies Authorization Response JWT signature
  * - **19**
    - **Relying Party**
    - **-**
    - Process the content of Authorization Response, performs checks for integrity and tampering, and saves the Response to the persistence layer
  * - **20**
    - **Relying Party**
    - **Wallet Instance**
    - Relying Party notifies the Wallet Instance that the operation ends successfully

Authorization Request Details
-----------------------------
In a Cross Device Flow, The Authorization Request is required by the Relying Party in order to show the QR Code.
The User will scan it using the Wallet Instance that will grant the attributes to the RP.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The User frames the QR Code using the Wallet Instance, then grants consent to release their attributes to the RP.

```

Author: Done

The payload of the QR Code is a Base64 encoded string based on the following format:

.. code-block:: html

  eudiw://authorize?client_id=`client_id`&request_uri=`request_uri`

Where:

.. list-table::
  :widths: 25 50
  :header-rows: 1

  * - **Name**
    - **Description**
  * - **client_id**
    - Client Identifier of the Verifier
  * - **request_uri**
    - The Verifier's request URI used by the Wallet Instance to retrieve the Request Object

The Error Correction Level chosen for the QR Code is Q (Quartily - up to 25%), that offers a good balance between error correction capability and data density/space and it will allow the QR Code to remain readable even if it is damaged or partially obscured.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *error correction level* chosen for the QR Code is Q (Quartily - up to 25%), that offers a good balance between error correction capability and data density/space and it will allow the QR Code to remain readable even if it is damaged or partially obscured.

```

Author: Done

Below is a non-normative example of a QR Code displayed by the Verifier:

.. image:: ../../images/verifier_qr_code.svg
  :align: center

Below is a non-normative example of the payload and its Base64 decoded content:

.. code-block:: html

  ZXVkaXc6Ly9hdXRob3JpemU/Y2xpZW50X2lkPWh0dHBzOi8vdmVyaWZpZXIuZXhhbXBsZS5vcmcmcmVxdWVzdF91cmk9aHR0cHM6Ly92ZXJpZmllci5leGFtcGxlLm9yZy9hMTI1MmY5MC1hNjUyLTRjNDctODAzOS1mNjAwOTZjYXZ6cXc=

  eudiw://authorize?client_id=https://verifier.example.org&request_uri=https://verifier.example.org/a1252f90-a652-4c47-8039-f60096cavzqw

Request Object Details
----------------------
Once the Wallet Instance scan the QR Code, it extracts from the payload the ``request_uri`` parameter, then it will invoke the retrieved URI providing a Wallet instance Attestation in order to obtain the entire Request Object.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the Wallet Instance scans the QR Code, it extracts from the payload the ``request_uri`` parameter, then it will invoke the retrieved URI providing a Wallet instance Attestation, using an HTTP POST method, in order to obtain the entire Request Object.

```

Author: Done

The following is a non-normative example of this interaction:

.. code-block:: javascript

  POST /{id} HTTP/1.1
  HOST: verifier.example.org
  Content-Type: application/json
  
  {

>     "wallet_instance_attestation"="eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIs...PT0iXX0"

Reviewer: we need a Proof of possession here

Below is a non-normative response example:

Header
^^^^^^

.. code-block:: JSON

  {
    "alg": "ES256",
    "typ": "JWT",
    "x5c": [ "MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgIC...20a" ],
    "kid": "e0bbf2f1-8c3a-4eab-a8ac-2e8f34db8a47",
    "trust_chain": [
      "MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgIC...awz",
      "MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgIC...2w3",
      "MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgIC...sf2"
    ]
  }

.. list-table::
  :widths: 25 50
  :header-rows: 1

  * - **Name**
    - **Description**
  * - **alg**
    - Algorithm used to sign the JWT
  * - **typ**
    - Media Type of the JWT
  * - **x5c**
    - X.509 Certificate Chain containing the key used to sign the JWT
  * - **kid**
    - Key ID used identifying the key used to sign the JWT. Required if ``trust_chain`` is used
  * - **trust_chain**
    - Sequence of verified Entity Statements that validates Relying Party compliance with the Federation

Payload
^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: JSON

  {
    "scope": "eu.europa.ec.eudiw.pid.it.1 eu.europa.ec.eudiw.pid.it.1:unique_id eu.europa.ec.eudiw.pid.it.1:given_name",
    "client_id_scheme": "entity_id",
    "client_id": "https://verifier.example.org",

>     "client_metadata": "TBD",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done

    "response_mode": "direct_post.jwt",
    "response_type": "vp_token",
    "response_uri": "https://verifier.example.org/callback",
    "nonce": "2c128e4d-fc91-4cd3-86b8-18bdea0988cb",
    "state": "3be39b69-6ac1-41aa-921b-3e6c07ddcb03",
    "iss": "https://verifier.example.org",
    "iat": 1672418465,
    "exp": 1672422065
  }

.. list-table::
  :widths: 25 50
  :header-rows: 1

  * - **Name**
    - **Description**
  * - **scope**
    - Alias for a well-defined Presentation Definition. It will be used to identify PID Presentation Definition request.
  * - **client_id_scheme**
    - String identifying the scheme of the value in the ``client_id``. It will be ``entity_id``
  * - **client_id**
    - Client Identifier
  * - **client_metadata**

>     - JSON object containing the Verifier metadata. It will be ``null`` since we will use ``entity_id`` as ``client_id_scheme``. Relying Party metadata will be present in the ``trust_chain`` statements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - JSON object containing the Verifier metadata. It will be ``null`` since we will use ``entity_id`` as ``client_id_scheme``. Relying Party metadata is derived from the ``trust_chain``
```

Author: Done

  * - **response_mode**
    - Used to ask the Wallet Instance in which way it has to send the response. It will be ``direct_post.jwt``
  * - **response_type**
    - Used to ask the Wallet Instance what it has to provide in Authorization Response. We will be ``vp_token``
  * - **response_uri**
    - The Response URI to which the Wallet Instance must send the Authorization Response using an HTTPS POST
  * - **nonce**
    - Fresh cryptographically random number with sufficient entropy used for security reason
  * - **state**
    - Unique identifier of the Authorization Request
  * - **iss**
    - The entity that issued the JWT. It will be populated with the Verifier URI
  * - **iat**
    - The NumericDate representing the time at which the JWT was issued
  * - **exp**
    - The NumericDate representing the expiration time on or after which the JWT MUST NOT be accepted for processing

⚠ The usage of ``scope`` instead of ``presentation_definition`` is still under discussion.

Here a non-normative example of ``presentation_definition`` that can be used instead of the ``scope`` example:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here a non-normative example of ``presentation_definition``:

```

Reviewer: we can't say "instead" since if we use scope we'll put in it the aliases of the presentation_definition entries

Author: Done

.. code-block:: JSON

  {
    "presentation_definition": {
      "id": "32f54163-7166-48f1-93d8-ff217bdb0653",
      "input_descriptors": [
        {
          "id": "eu.europa.ec.eudiw.pid.it.1",
          "name": "Person Identification Data",
          "purpose": "User authentication",
          "format": "vc+sd-jwt",
          "constraints": {
            "fields": [
              {
                "path": [
                  "$.credentialSubject.unique_id",
                  "$.credentialSubject.given_name"
                ]
              }
            ],
            "limit_discolusre": "preferred"
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }

  

ℹ️ Note:

The following parameters, even if defined in [OID4VP], are not mentioned in the previous non-normative example, since their usage is conditional to the presence of other ones.

- ``presentation_definition``: string containing a Presentation Definition JSON object that articulate what proofs a Verifier requires. This parameter MUST not be present when ``presentation_definition_uri`` or ``scope`` are present

> - ``presentation_definition_uri``: string containing an HTTPS URL pointing to a resource where a Presentation Definition JSON object can be retrieved. This parameter MUST not be present when ``presentation_definition`` or ``scope`` are present

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``presentation_definition_uri``: string containing an HTTPS URL pointing to a resource where a Presentation Definition JSON object can be retrieved. This parameter MUST be present when ``presentation_definition parameter``, or a ``scope`` value representing a Presentation Definition is not present.
```

Author: Done

- ``client_metadata_uri``: string containing an HTTPS URL pointing to a resource where a JSON object with the Verifier metadata can be retrieved. This parameter MUST not be present when ``client_metadata`` is present
- ``redirect_uri``: the redirect URI to which the Wallet Instance must redirect the Authorization Response. This parameter MUST not be present when ``response_uri`` is present
- ``aud``: the audience of the JWT. Since it would be equal to ``iss`` value, it is omitted

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer: quite useless, we can get rid of it

Author: Removed

    "vp_token": "eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIs...PT0iXX0",
    "presentation_submission": {
        "definition_id": "32f54163-7166-48f1-93d8-ff217bdb0653",
        "id": "04a98be3-7fb0-4cf5-af9a-31579c8b0e7d",
        "descriptor_map": [
            {
                "id": "eu.europa.ec.eudiw.pid.it.1:unique_id",
                "path": "$.vp_token.verified_claims.claims._sd[0]",
                "format": "vc+sd-jwt"
            },
            {
                "id": "eu.europa.ec.eudiw.pid.it.1:given_name",
                "path": "$.vp_token.verified_claims.claims._sd[1]",
                "format": "vc+sd-jwt"
            }
        ]
    }
  }

Where: 

.. list-table::
  :widths: 25 50
  :header-rows: 1

  * - **Name**
    - **Description**
  * - **vp_token**
    - JWS containing a single (or an array) of Verifiable Presentation(s)
  * - **presentation_submission**
    - JSON Object contains mappings between the requested Verifiable Credentials and where to find them within the returned VP Token
  * - **state**
    - Unique identifier provided by the Verifier inside the Authorization Request

Below is a non-normative example of the ``vp_token`` JWS content:

> ⚠️ TBD, the following example is under analysis, not ready

Reviewer: the PID non-normative example will be replaced with a reference to the example published in the pid-data

@fmarino-ipzs ^

In the **Cross Device Authorization Flow**, the User interacts with a remote Relying Party.
This scenario requests the Verifier to show a QR Code which the User frames with their Wallet Instance.

Once the Relying Party authentication is performed by the Wallet Instance, the User gives the consent for the release of the personal data, in the form of a Verifiable Presentation.

.. image:: ../../images/cross_device_auth_seq_diagram.svg
  :align: center
  :target: //www.plantuml.com/plantuml/png/ZPF1Rjf048Rl-nIZd5gfUG4agaGqgcXLuG99Bf6gnJlWRSmidPsrIv--QpjhOn1IRlZtDpyp_upll6YMi2-L3k8ex3V8IXsYPdDxq2Hmy-YHRq1x26FzMPSb2imfMb2EBLAFaIMMHqixoA9uR84AbPfEuJv8WHH1BTOHm7Ig0jn-ZgydiCG_0Rr0naum5pHHyIvmZahdOYijsDXKc0fcZ55hFHtRVwrbShd4VYvXvaoghoUmAbmTrLOqUFeN_UzQgJhHkQRaqOiFVuKZtBV-k9o_q9RTVY1J5ryVrZsssFp6MFL2c-DfQHHgAmMS1Gpt8f5enuk8zl0bSnc8UqMwaanNSM6qvl2MJDV-k9zn26d6v3LQQUVK8q_8TdiyGtwWQAD53vGkRHGGlZslOMLtf2KmNhnENQ61f-o3_zW1OUXswnXoHnv9Xl632ccgcQEjvJsQqu72i8biiLfV78q_D8unNcXNK1r-lIFV6QD14gjBc7iVa5F22Rmsym1ax7Bq7gH0o7kxI-1AmugS8BWAUGGV2kqHE0Pc6QEvcyJ9Rg5AtLWItB6LuoVGwOlidiX0uKg331jBfjccstPxQ0oGV624U5QT1Ze-bPPUqRIvTPTWaTy5vu4PIS2ZzyrGv2Z7yyfPKydzITWu7AD7EhtZnNTbyFIZFJlbEoGJzkL_

> .. list-table::

Reviewer 3: Put only the message number with the description. This makes it easier to read.

Reviewer: moved to issue

  * - **8**
    - **Relying Party**
    - **-**
    - The Relying Party attests the trust to the Wallet Instance using the Wallet Instance Attestation and verifies its capabilities.
  * - **9**
    - **Relying Party**
    - **Wallet Instance**
    - The Relying Party issues a signed Request Object, returning it as response.
  * - **10**
    - **Wallet Instance**
    - **-**
    - The Wallet Instance verifies Request Object JWS.
  * - **11**
    - **Wallet Instance**
    - **-**
    - The Wallet Instance attests the trust to the Relying Party by verifying the ``trust_chain``.
  * - **12** and **13**
    - **Wallet Instance**
    - **-**
    - The Wallet Instance verifies the signature of the request and processes the Relying Party metadata to attests its capabilities and allowed scopes, attesting which Verifiable Credentials and personal attributes the Relying Party is granted to request.
  * - **14**
    - **Wallet Instance**
    - **User**
    - The Wallet Instance requests the User's consent for the release of the credentials.
  * - **15**
    - **User**
    - **Wallet Instance**

>     - The User consents the presentation of their credentials, by selecting/deselecting the personal data to release.

Reviewer 3: Not only the consent. The user authorises and gives consent

  * - **16**
    - **Wallet Instance**
    - **Relying Party**
    - The Wallet Instance provides the Authorization Response to the Relying Party.
  * - **17**
    - **Relying Party**
    - **-**
    - The Relying Party verifies the signature of the Authorization Response JWS.
  * - **18**
    - **Relying Party**
    - **-**

>     - The Relying verifies the Authorization Response, performs checks for integrity and proof of possession of the presented credentials.

Reviewer 3: The Relying --> The Relying Party

Moreover the RP MUST check the trust with the Issuer (PID Provider) and that the PID is not revoked.

.. code-block:: javascript

  eudiw://authorize?client_id=`$client_id`&request_uri=`$request_uri`

Where:

.. list-table::
  :widths: 25 50
  :header-rows: 1

  * - **Name**
    - **Description**
  * - **client_id**
    - Client unique identifier of the Verifier.
  * - **request_uri**
    - The Verifier request URI used by the Wallet Instance to retrieve the Request Object.

.. note::
    The *error correction level* chosen for the QR Code must be Q (Quartily - up to 25%), since it offers a good balance between error correction capability and data density/space. This level of quality and error correction allow the QR Code to remain readable even if it is damaged or partially obscured.

Below is a non-normative example of a QR Code issued by the Relying Party:

.. image:: ../../images/verifier_qr_code.svg
  :align: center

Below is a non-normative example of the QR Code raw payload:

.. code-block:: text

  ZXVkaXc6Ly9hdXRob3JpemU/Y2xpZW50X2lkPWh0dHBzOi8vdmVyaWZpZXIuZXhhbXBsZS5vcmcmcmVxdWVzdF91cmk9aHR0cHM6Ly92ZXJpZmllci5leGFtcGxlLm9yZy9hMTI1MmY5MC1hNjUyLTRjNDctODAzOS1mNjAwOTZjYXZ6cXc=

Below follows its Base64 decoded content:

.. code-block:: text

>     eudiw://authorize?client_id=https://verifier.example.org&request_uri=https://verifier.example.org/a1252f90-a652-4c47-8039-f60096cavzqw

Reviewer 3: Since we are assuming that the Wallet Instance decodes the QR Code (row 131 `The User frames the QR Code using the Wallet Instance`), I suggest to consider a JSON object here.

Reviewer 3: Actually, we must have a JSON object because the custom URI is wallet specific. We could have multiple wallet provider each one with different custo URI. The QR Code content must be generic.

DPoP HTTP Header
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A **DPoP proof** is included in the request using the HTTP Header ``DPoP`` and containing a JWS. The JWS must be signed with the public key made available in the Wallet Instance Attestation (``Authorization: DPoP``).

The JOSE header of the **DPoP JWS** MUST contain at least the following parameters:

.. list-table:: 
    :widths: 20 60 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **JOSE header**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **typ** 
      - It MUST be equal to ``dpop+jwt``. 
      - [:rfc:`7515`] and [:rfc:`8725`. Section 3.11].
    * - **alg** 
      - A digital signature algorithm identifier such as per IANA "JSON Web Signature and Encryption Algorithms" registry. It MUST be one of the supported algorithms in Section *Cryptographic Algorithms* <supported_algs>`* and MUST NOT be none or an identifier for a symmetric algorithm (MAC).
      - [:rfc:`7515`]
    * - **jwk** 
      - representing the public key chosen by the client, in JSON Web Key (JWK) [RFC7517] format, as defined in Section 4.1.3 of [RFC7515]. It MUST NOT contain a private key.
      - [:rfc:`7517`] and [:rfc:`7515`]

> The payload of a **DPoP proof** MUST contain at least the following claims:

Reviewer 3: `ath` claim is missing but required in this case

    "kid": "e0bbf2f1-8c3a-4eab-a8ac-2e8f34db8a47",
    "trust_chain": [
      "MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgIC...awz",
      "MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgIC...2w3",
      "MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgIC...sf2"
    ]
  }
  .
  {
    "scope": "eu.europa.ec.eudiw.pid.it.1 pid-sd-jwt:uniqueid+given_name+family_name",
    "client_id_scheme": "entity_id",
    "client_id": "https://verifier.example.org",
    "response_mode": "direct_post.jwt",
    "response_type": "vp_token",
    "response_uri": "https://verifier.example.org/callback",
    "nonce": "2c128e4d-fc91-4cd3-86b8-18bdea0988cb",
    "state": "3be39b69-6ac1-41aa-921b-3e6c07ddcb03",
    "iss": "https://verifier.example.org",
    "iat": 1672418465,
    "exp": 1672422065
  }

The JWS header parameters are described herein:

.. list-table::
  :widths: 25 50
  :header-rows: 1

  * - **Name**
    - **Description**
  * - **alg**
    - Algorithm used to sign the JWT, according to [:rfc:`7516#section-4.1.1`]. It MUST be one of the supported algorithms in Section *Cryptographic Algorithms* and MUST NOT be none or an identifier for a symmetric algorithm (MAC).
  * - **typ**
    - Media Type of the JWT, as defined in [:rfc:`7519`].

>   * - **x5c**

Reviewer 3: Since we require `entity_id` as the only required value for the `client_id_scheme` the `x5c` parameter here doesn't add anything. We can keep only trust_chain having the X509 certificates in the ES, if any.

Reviewer: Ok, removed thank you @fmarino-ipzs

    - X.509 Certificate containing the key used to verify the JWS, as defined in [:rfc:`7517`].

>   * - **kid**

Reviewer 3: why kid is required?

Reviewer 3: I mean, the point here is that kid may be omitted in case of x5c but, in this case we must not have x5c here because we are using OIDC-FED. Thus kid is not conditional but mandatory. @peppelinux are you agree?

    - Key ID of the public key needed to verify the JWS signature, as defined in [:rfc:`7517`]. Required if ``trust_chain`` is used.
  * - **trust_chain**
    - Sequence of Entity Statements that composes a Trust Chain related to the Relying Party, as defined in `OIDC-FED`_ Section *3.2.1. Trust Chain Header Parameter*.

The JWS payload parameters are described herein:

.. list-table::
  :widths: 25 50
  :header-rows: 1

  * - **Name**
    - **Description**
  * - **scope**
    - Aliases for well-defined Presentation Definitions IDs. It will be used to identify which required credentials and User attributes are requested by the Relying Party.
  * - **client_id_scheme**

>     - String identifying the scheme of the value in the ``client_id``. It must be ``entity_id``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - String identifying the scheme of the value in the ``client_id``. It MUST be ``entity_id``.
```

  * - **client_id**
    - Unique Identifier of the Relying Party.
  * - **response_mode**
    - Used to ask the Wallet Instance in which way it has to send the response. It must be ``direct_post.jwt``
  * - **response_type**
    - The supported response type, must be set to``vp_token``.
  * - **response_uri**
    - The Response URI to which the Wallet Instance must send the Authorization Response using an HTTPs POST.
  * - **nonce**
    - Fresh cryptographically random number with sufficient entropy used for security reason, which length must be at least 32 digits.
  * - **state**
    - Unique identifier of the Authorization Request.
  * - **iss**
    - The entity that issued the JWT. It will be populated with the Verifier URI
  * - **iat**
    - The NumericDate representing the time at which the JWT was issued
  * - **exp**
    - The NumericDate representing the expiration time on or after which the JWT MUST NOT be accepted for processing.

.. warning::

>     The usage of ``scope`` instead of ``presentation_definition`` is still under discussion and needs better refinements.

Reviewer 3: scope parameter is a well known parameter with a well defined meaning in the context of OAuth/OIDC. If we are using the scope parameter in the same way and with the same meaning, it is fine with me. Otherwise, I prefer `presentation_definition`.

Reviewer: please todo on issue #34

          "purpose": "User authentication",
          "format": "vc+sd-jwt",
          "constraints": {
            "fields": [
              {
                "path": [
                  "$.credentialSubject.unique_id",
                  "$.credentialSubject.given_name",
                  "$.credentialSubject.family_name",
                ]
              }
            ],
            "limit_discolusre": "preferred"
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }

  

.. note::

  The following parameters, even if defined in [OID4VP], are not mentioned in the previous non-normative example, since their usage is conditional and may change in future release of this documentation.

  - ``presentation_definition``: JSON object according to `Presentation Exchange <PresentationExch>`_. This parameter MUST not be present when ``presentation_definition_uri`` or ``scope`` are present.
  - ``presentation_definition_uri``: string containing an HTTPS URL pointing to a resource where a Presentation Definition JSON object can be retrieved. This parameter MUST be present when ``presentation_definition parameter`` or a ``scope`` value representing a Presentation Definition is not present.

>   - ``client_metadata_uri``: string containing an HTTPS URL pointing to a resource where a JSON object with the Verifier metadata can be retrieved. This parameter MUST not be present since the ``client_metadata`` is taken from the *trust chain*.

Reviewer 3: From OIDC4VP 

_The client_metadata or client_metadata_uri parameter MUST NOT be present in the Authorization Request when this Client Identifier scheme (entity_id) is used._

They are not mentioned in this document just because they MUST not be mentioned

>   - ``redirect_uri``: the redirect URI to which the Wallet Instance must redirect the Authorization Response. This parameter MUST not be present when ``response_uri`` is present.

Reviewer 3: Regarding this, for what I understood, this parameter is not required because we are using `direct_post.jwt`. @peppelinux, am I wrong?

Authorization Response Details
------------------------------

> After authenticating the User and getting their consent for the presentation of the credentials, the Wallet sends the Authorization Response to the Relying Party ``response_uri`` endpoint, the content should be encrypted according `OPENID4VP`_ Section 6.3, using the Relying Party public key.

Reviewer 3: Nowhere in the document does it mention User authentication.

.. note::
    **Why the response is encrypted?**

    The response sent from the Wallet Instance to the Relying Party is encrypted

>     to prevent a technique called `SSL split attack <https://pdos.csail.mit.edu/papers/ssl-splitting-usenixsecurity03/>`_, that could be enabled by malicious app installed locally by Users,that intecepts the network traffic, or be present by-design in network environments where a next-generation firewalls or other security devices may reduce the privacy of the Users.

Reviewer 3: is there a security analysis done in our context? It seams to me that this is a security requirement but I think that it requires further investigations, unless you already have some documentation. In this case, share it please.

Reviewer: please follow in https://github.com/italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs/issues/39

Below a non-normative example of the request:

.. code-block:: http

  POST /callback HTTP/1.1
  HOST: verifier.example.org
  Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
  
  response=eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIs...9t2LQ
  

Below is a non-normative example of the decrypted JSON ``response`` content:

.. code-block:: JSON

  {
    "state": "3be39b69-6ac1-41aa-921b-3e6c07ddcb03",
    "vp_token": "eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIs...PT0iXX0",
    "presentation_submission": {
        "definition_id": "32f54163-7166-48f1-93d8-ff217bdb0653",
        "id": "04a98be3-7fb0-4cf5-af9a-31579c8b0e7d",
        "descriptor_map": [
            {

>                 "id": "eu.europa.ec.eudiw.pid.it.1:unique_id",

Reviewer 3: We must agree on this `eu.europa.ec.eudiw.pid.it.1`. 
@peppelinux as you already know, I don't like this. Can we make some value proposition? (I already did in the PR #28 )

Reviewer: Follow here https://github.com/italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs/issues/34#issuecomment-1611631700

                "path": "$.vp_token.verified_claims.claims._sd[0]",
                "format": "vc+sd-jwt"
            },
            {
                "id": "eu.europa.ec.eudiw.pid.it.1:given_name",
                "path": "$.vp_token.verified_claims.claims._sd[1]",
                "format": "vc+sd-jwt"
            }
        ]
    }
  }

Where the following parameters are used: 

.. list-table::
  :widths: 25 50
  :header-rows: 1

  * - **Name**
    - **Description**
  * - **vp_token**

>     - JWS containing a single (or an array) of Verifiable Presentation(s) in the form of JWS.

Reviewer 3: Not defined yet

  * - **presentation_submission**

>     - JSON Object contains mappings between the requested Verifiable Credentials and where to find them within the returned VP Token.

Reviewer 3: Not defined yet

  * - **state**
    - Unique identifier provided by the Verifier inside the Authorization Request

Below is a non-normative example of the ``vp_token`` decoded content, represented in the form of JWS header and payload, separated by a period:

.. code-block:: text

   {
     "alg": "ES256",
     "typ": "JWT",
     "kid": "e0bbf2f1-8c3a-4eab-a8ac-2e8f34db8a47"
   }
   .
   {
    "iss": "https://wallet-provider.example.org/instance/vbeXJksM45xphtANnCiG6mCyuU4jfGNzopGuKvogg9c",
    "jti": "3978344f-8596-4c3a-a978-8fcaba3903c5",
    "aud": "https://verifier.example.org/callback",
    "iat": 1541493724,
    "exp": 1573029723,
    "nonce": "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
    "vp": "<SD-JWT>~<Disclosure 1>~<Disclosure 2>~...~<Disclosure N>"
   }

Relying Party Entity Configuration
---------------------------------------------

> According to the `Trust Model`_ section, the Verifier is a Federation Entity and must expose a well-known endpoint containing its Entity Configuration. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
According to the `Trust Model`_ section, the Verifier is a Federation Entity and must expose a .well-known endpoint containing its Entity Configuration. 
```

> Below a non-normative example of the request made by the Wallet Instance to the *openid-federation* well-known endpoint to obtain the Relying Party Entity Configuration:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Below a non-normative example of the request made by the Wallet Instance to the *openid-federation* .well-known endpoint to obtain the Relying Party Entity Configuration:
```

.. code-block:: http

  GET /.well-known/openid-federation HTTP/1.1
  HOST: verifier.example.org

Below is a non-normative response example:

.. code-block:: text

    {
        "alg": "RS256",
        "kid": "2HnoFS3YnC9tjiCaivhWLVUJ3AxwGGz_98uRFaqMEEs",
        "typ": "entity-statement+jwt"
    }
    .
    {
        "exp": 1649590602,
        "iat": 1649417862,
        "iss": "https://rp.example.it",
        "sub": "https://rp.example.it",
        "jwks": {
            "keys": [
                {
                    "kty": "RSA",
                    "n": "5s4qi …",
                    "e": "AQAB",
                    "kid": "2HnoFS3YnC9tjiCaivhWLVUJ3AxwGGz_98uRFaqMEEs"
                }
            ]
        },
        "metadata": {

>             "wallet_verifier": {

Reviewer 3: As we already discussed, this is misleading since the RP here is a web confidential client. I suggest to have two different type of metadata: `openid_relying_party` for confidential web client and `wallet_verifier` for mobile public client

Reviewer: I didn't agree about inflating `openid_relying_party` metadata since this is a legacy metadata designed for legacy infrastructures

since we don't have the quorum for this metadata, I'd purpose `wallet_relying_party` even because OpenID4VP is more OAuth2 focused than OpenID, even if the standardization body is openid.

in fact openid4vp defines `client_metadata` for that, so the final proposal would be: do we have to use `client_metadata` or we're ok with `wallet_relying_party`?

Reviewer: to be developed here https://github.com/italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs/issues/34

                "application_type": "web",

>                 "client_id": "https://verifier.example.org",

Reviewer 3: Equal to sub and iss?

>                 "client_id": "https://verifier.example.org",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                "client_id": "https://rp.example.it",
```

                "client_name": "Name of an example organization",
                "jwks": {
                    "keys": [
                        {
                            "kty": "RSA",
                            "use": "sig",
                            "n": "1Ta-sE …",
                            "e": "AQAB",
                            "kid": "YhNFS3YnC9tjiCaivhWLVUJ3AxwGGz_98uRFaqMEEs",
                            "x5c": [ "..." ]
                        }
                    ]
                },
                
                "contacts": [
                    "ops@verifier.example.org"
                ],
                
                "request_uris": [
                    "https://verifier.example.org/request_uri"
                ],

>                 "redirect_uris": [

Reviewer 3: Maybe it is not needed

Reviewer: why?

                    "https://verifier.example.org/callback"
                ],
                
                "default_acr_values": [
                    "https://www.spid.gov.it/SpidL2",
                    "https://www.spid.gov.it/SpidL3"
                ],
    
                  "vp_formats": {
                     "jwt_vp_json": {
                        "alg": [
                           "EdDSA",
                           "ES256K"
                        ]
                     }
                  },
                  "presentation_definitions": [
                      {

>                         "id": "pid-sd-jwt:uniqueid+given_name+family_name",

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
                        "id": "pid-sd-jwt:unique_id+given_name+family_name",
```

>                         "input_descriptors": [

Reviewer 3: Where is it defined?

Reviewer: DiF Presentation Exchange if I didn't miss something, sorry right now I can't check the specs for confirmation

Reviewer: to be developed here: https://github.com/italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs/issues/34

                    "A256GCM"
                ],

                // SIOPv2 related
                "subject_type": "pairwise",
                "require_auth_time": true,
                "id_token_signed_response_alg": [
                    "RS256",
                    "ES256"
                ],
                "id_token_encrypted_response_alg": [
                    "RSA-OAEP",
                    "RSA-OAEP-256"
                ],
                "id_token_encrypted_response_enc": [
                    "A128CBC-HS256",
                    "A192CBC-HS384",
                    "A256CBC-HS512",
                    "A128GCM",
                    "A192GCM",
                    "A256GCM"
                ],
            },
            "federation_entity": {
                "organization_name": "OpenID Wallet Verifier example",
                "homepage_uri": "https://verifier.example.org/home",
                "policy_uri": "https://verifier.example.org/policy",
                "logo_uri": "https://verifier.example.org/static/logo.svg",
                "contacts": [
                   "tech@verifier.example.org"
                 ]
            }
        },
        "authority_hints": [

>             "https://registry.eudi-wallet.example.it/"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            "https://registry.eudi-wallet.example.it"
```

      - [:rfc:`9110`. Section 7.1].
    * - **iat**
      - UNIX Timestamp with the time of JWT issuance, coded as NumericDate as indicated in :rfc:`7519`. 
      - [:rfc:`7519`. Section 4.1.6].
    * - **ath**
      - Hash of the Wallet Instance Attestation. 
      - [`DPOP`_. Section 4.2].

Therein a non-normative example of the DPoP decoded content:

.. code-block:: text

    {
      "typ": "dpop+jwt",
      "alg": "ES256",
      "jwk": {
        "kty": "EC",
        "x": "l8tFrhx-34tV3hRICRDY9zCkDlpBhF42UQUfWVAWBFs",
        "y": "9VE4jf_Ok_o64zbTTlcuNJajHmt6v9TDVrU0CdvGRDA",
        "crv": "P-256"
      }
    }
    .
    {
      "jti": "f47c96a1-f928-4768-aa30-ef32dc78aa69",
      "htm": "GET",
      "htu": "https://verifier.example.org/request_uri",
      "iat": 1562262616,
      "ath": "fUHyO2r2Z3DZ53EsNrWBb0xWXoaNy59IiKCAqksmQEo"
    }

Request URI response
--------------------

The Relying Party issues a signed request object, where a non-normative example in the form of decoded header and payload is shown below:

.. code-block:: text

  {
    "alg": "ES256",
    "typ": "JWT",

>     "x5c": [ "MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgIC...20a" ],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    "kid": "e0bbf2f1-8c3a-4eab-a8ac-2e8f34db8a47",
    "trust_chain": [
      "MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgIC...awz",
      "MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgIC...2w3",
      "MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgIC...sf2"
    ]
  }
  .
  {
    "scope": "eu.europa.ec.eudiw.pid.it.1 pid-sd-jwt:unique_id+given_name+family_name",
    "client_id_scheme": "entity_id",
    "client_id": "https://verifier.example.org",
    "response_mode": "direct_post.jwt",
    "response_type": "vp_token",
    "response_uri": "https://verifier.example.org/callback",
    "nonce": "2c128e4d-fc91-4cd3-86b8-18bdea0988cb",
    "state": "3be39b69-6ac1-41aa-921b-3e6c07ddcb03",
    "iss": "https://verifier.example.org",
    "iat": 1672418465,
    "exp": 1672422065
  }

The JWS header parameters are described herein:

.. list-table::
  :widths: 25 50
  :header-rows: 1

  * - **Name**
    - **Description**
  * - **alg**
    - Algorithm used to sign the JWT, according to [:rfc:`7516#section-4.1.1`]. It MUST be one of the supported algorithms in Section *Cryptographic Algorithms* and MUST NOT be none or an identifier for a symmetric algorithm (MAC).
  * - **typ**
    - Media Type of the JWT, as defined in [:rfc:`7519`].
  * - **x5c**

>     - X.509 Certificate containing the key used to verify the JWS, as defined in [:rfc:`7517`].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The Error Correction Level chosen for the QR Code is Q (Quartily - up to 25%), that offers a good balance between error correction capability and data density/space and it will allow the QR Code to remain readable even if it is damaged or partially obscured.

Below is a non-normative example of a QR Code displayed by the Verifier:

.. image:: ../../images/verifier_qr_code.svg
  :align: center

Below is a non-normative example of the payload and its Base64 decoded content:

.. code-block:: html

  ZXVkaXc6Ly9hdXRob3JpemU/Y2xpZW50X2lkPWh0dHBzOi8vdmVyaWZpZXIuZXhhbXBsZS5vcmcmcmVxdWVzdF91cmk9aHR0cHM6Ly92ZXJpZmllci5leGFtcGxlLm9yZy9hMTI1MmY5MC1hNjUyLTRjNDctODAzOS1mNjAwOTZjYXZ6cXc=

  eudiw://authorize?client_id=https://verifier.example.org&request_uri=https://verifier.example.org/a1252f90-a652-4c47-8039-f60096cavzqw

Request Object Details
----------------------
Once the Wallet Instance scan the QR Code, it extracts from the payload the ``request_uri`` parameter, then it will invoke the retrieved URI providing a Wallet instance Attestation in order to obtain the entire Request Object.

The following is a non-normative example of this interaction:

.. code-block:: javascript

>   POST /{id} HTTP/1.1

Reviewer: here we need sec and privacy considerations since there may be a way for a rogue RP to collect wallet instance attestation from citizen without having given any trust

Below a non-normative response example
Request Object Details
----------------------
Once the Wallet Instance scan the QR Code, it extracts from the payload the ``request_uri`` parameter, then it will invoke the retrieved URI providing a Wallet instance Attestation in order to obtain the entire Request Object.

The following is a non-normative example of this interaction:

.. code-block:: javascript

  POST /{id} HTTP/1.1
  HOST: verifier.example.org
  Content-Type: application/json
  
  {
    "wallet_instance_attestation"="eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIs...PT0iXX0"
  }

  

For more detailed information, please refer to the `Wallet Instance Attestation`_ section of this document.

⚠️ The right step in which the Wallet Instance should send the Wallet Instance Attestation to the Verifier is still under discussion.

Below is a non-normative response example:

Header
^^^^^^

.. code-block:: JSON

  {
    "alg": "ES256",
    "typ": "JWT",
    "x5c": [ "MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgIC...20a" ],
    "kid": "e0bbf2f1-8c3a-4eab-a8ac-2e8f34db8a47",
    "trust_chain":[
    "trust_chain": [
      "MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgIC...awz",
      "MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgIC...2w3",
      "MIICajCCAdOgAwIBAgIC...sf2"
    ]
  }

>   .

Reviewer: why the JWT payload was removed?

>     "client_metadata": "TBD",

Reviewer: remove `client_metadata` since it is taken from the `trust_chain`

    - Fresh cryptographically random number with sufficient entropy used for security reason
  * - **state**
    - Unique identifier of the Authorization Request
  * - **iss**
    - The entity that issued the JWT. It will be populated with the Verifier URI
  * - **iat**
    - The NumericDate representing the time at which the JWT was issued
  * - **exp**
    - The NumericDate representing the expiration time on or after which the JWT MUST NOT be accepted for processing

⚠ The usage of ``scope`` instead of ``presentation_definition`` is still under discussion.

Here a non-normative example of ``presentation_definition`` that can be used instead of the ``scope`` example:

.. code-block:: JSON

> 

Reviewer: mi sembra buono, su DiF PE ci facciamo un ragionamento ad-hoc appena possibile

  {
    "presentation_definition": {
      "id": "32f54163-7166-48f1-93d8-ff217bdb0653",

>       "input_descriptors": [

Reviewer: ````suggestion
      "id": "person-identitifcation-data-sd-jwt",
````

Author: Done

        {
          "id": "eu.europa.ec.eudiw.pid.it.1",
          "name": "Person Identification Data",
          "purpose": "User authentication",

>           "format": "vc+sd-jwt",

Reviewer: da verificare

  - ``presentation_definition_uri``: string containing an HTTPS URL pointing to a resource where a Presentation Definition JSON object can be retrieved. This parameter MUST be present when ``presentation_definition parameter`` or a ``scope`` value representing a Presentation Definition is not present.
  - ``client_metadata``: A JSON object containing the Verifier metadata values. The ``client_metadata`` parameter MUST NOT be present when ``client_id_scheme`` is ``entity_id``. The ``client_metadata`` is taken from ``trust_chain``.
  - ``client_metadata_uri``: string containing an HTTPS URL pointing to a resource where a JSON object with the Verifier metadata can be retrieved. The ``client_metadata_uri`` parameter MUST NOT be present when ``client_id_scheme`` is ``entity_id``.
  - ``redirect_uri``: the redirect URI to which the Wallet Instance MUST redirect the Authorization Response. This parameter MUST not be present when ``response_uri`` is present.

Authorization Response Details
------------------------------

> After getting the User authorization and his consent for the presentation of the credentials, the Wallet sends the Authorization Response to the Relying Party ``response_uri`` endpoint, the content should be encrypted according `OPENID4VP`_ Section 6.3, using the Relying Party public key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After getting the User authorization and consent for the presentation of the credentials, the Wallet sends the Authorization Response to the Relying Party ``response_uri`` endpoint, the content should be encrypted according `OPENID4VP`_ Section 6.3, using the Relying Party public key.
```
